The universities saw the opportunity for using this technology for improved undergraduate education, relief for the costs associated with traditional library services,
the spiraling cost of cereal purchases, an inability to collect everything that is necessary at one physical site, and to share access to material via digital technology, rather than owning everything, you're providing enhanced access to things through consortial or cooperative relationships.
a move away from the printed book, do you think?
Prospectively, I think it does represent a parallel environment in which there are options for the way you use material.
Books are created in electronic form, they are printed for use, but they can also be
printed downstream by, you know, they don't have to be centralized in the production process.
Exactly.
For some books, the way information is presented, you know, the beauty of the book, the intrinsic value of the presentation will remain important.
For many things, particularly creating electronic form,
that will be less important, particularly as we get more used to receiving information very quickly over networks.
We'll get more of a divorcing of the content from the form itself, I think.
So tell me about your background.
I'm an archivist.
I love documents.
I worked...
I still consider myself an archivist on the income tax, but I've been working in preservation for the last decade.
And for the last six years, I've been investigating the use of digital imaging technology.
My bias about it, there's a... D-Lib is an online journal devoted to...
digital resources in library development.
And there's an article that a colleague and I just wrote, which is in the most recent issue, that talks about our bias about... Can I get a copy of that?
Yeah, I'll give you the URL for it.
It doesn't help you.
URL being what?
Are you plugged into networks?
Yeah, I'll give you the site.
To how I can go get it.
To how you can go get the D-Live article.
And I'll write it down in addition to having it on tape.
Okay, I'll have to look for it.
If we can get it before you leave today.
Please don't forget.
I want to be very useful to you.
In this article, we argue for a digital conversion program that...
begins with an understanding of the informational content of the document and a transference from analog to digital in which that significant information is replicated in the digital file itself.
That it's the best guarantee for the long-term value of the digital file by being as close to the document and its attributes as you can be.
not to create digital images that meet current user needs or are defined by the technical constraints at the time, but to stay close to the document.
It's the least changing of things in a very fast-changing world.
And all of the digital library efforts are based on cost recovery, and cost recovery will come
in creating something with long-term value and utility.
And if you don't stay close to what was valuable in the document in its digital surrogate, you won't have long-term value.
And the costs associated with that conversion are expensive, and they're ameliorated
only over time as you're able to use it in ways that the traditional source document couldn't be used or we could share it and benefit from the costs of sharing, and that we need one, two,
ensure the capture of all significant information so that we only have to scan a document once because it's an expensive proposition and so that the digital file that is created is a processable file so that as we develop new capabilities of interpreting the zeros and ones that go into a digital object it's a rich enough file to support that kind of
of processing.
We can't presume to know what technology is bringing us.
We can't presume to know what users tomorrow are going to want to demand.
And so if we base our digital library developments on current projections of what the future holds, we may be really off base.
So that in a fast changing world, stay close to the center of the wheel, which is the document.
So we begin with a sense of
Know your document, love your document, and understand what happens in the translation process.
Okay, but we still don't know how permanent these digital copies are.
No, we don't.
And in fact, they're not very permanent at all.
But it's not the technology that is our problem.
So you want to scan it once.
You want to scan it once.
We assume that means once for the next 200 years.
Exactly.
But it's not so much a technological problem as it is an institutional mindset, an ownership of the responsibilities, the development of contractual obligations and the sense of responsibility for that information from the point it's created for 200 years.
Um...
We haven't done that yet.
I don't know of an institution that has really fully committed the kinds of resources to make that happen.
We do it all the time in a paper and film-based world by maintaining proper humidity and temperature controls and all that stuff.
If we didn't do that, we'd lose this collection.
That's correct, but it's also a proven process.
We know the limitations of paper and the vulnerabilities of paper.
We also know the books of paper.
That's correct.
Maybe another 500 years.
We don't know... We don't know what's coming along.
We do know that we can take the bits that comprise a digital object and migrate them with absolute fidelity.
We're not preserving a physical object.
We're preserving... Migrate them.
...through changes in hardware and software and...
image file formats and compression techniques.
It's a complex process of taking the information and moving it to keep pace with technological change.
Somebody has to do that, though.
Somebody has to do it.
Somebody has to be alert to the fact that there has to be a migration made here.
That's absolutely true.
and how to access it.
Absolutely.
But had they been rigorous at the point of the creation and maintenance of those, we would have migrated that stuff.
It's not a big brainer to migrate that stuff.
It's a matter of being vigilant about putting the safeguards in place to do it.
It's not a big brainer, but the fact is there's still stuff there that nobody can access.
Exactly.
Because somebody screwed up.
It's not a technical problem.
It's an institutional problem.
to create the mechanisms to ensure that.
We're going to have to do it anyway because an increasing amount of the information that comes to us comes in that form.
We're not going to print it all and only that form.
And a printed version of it will be less than it is because of the ability to
manipulate, and there is no real document associated with a lot of electronic information.
It's information that we own ourselves, we personalize as a researcher.
So you can't really replicate that information in any other format.
That's a nice concept, that we personalize as a researcher.
But these are tailored little packages, aren't they?
A lot of electronic information is tailored to what the user needs.
Having said all this about digital technology and these sort of glib assurances that it can be done, I'll tell you that we've scanned in-house over a million images, and for every image we have created a beautiful paper facsimile or computer output microfilm that...
meets preservation standards for longevity and quality.
So you've backed everything up.
You know, I sleep at night as a preservation administrator, having an analog backup to that material.
So you've covered your sixes.
You know, that means your sixes.
Right.
The thing is, is that this is a period of transition, and I don't know how long it will last, but I don't trust Cornell or any other institution at this point to ensure that what we created last week will be available to my children's children.
I'm a good grant writer.
It hasn't been something that the institution itself has assumed responsibility for.
We are now, at that point, really coming to terms with Cornell's Digital Library and what the responsibilities are that are associated with it.
And you have space to sort of have copy material?
Well, we're replacing book for book at this point.
One of the things that was interesting about this technology, we began with important math texts from the 19th and early 20th century in two areas, algebra and analysis.
We had a math faculty advisory committee who had said, forget putting this on microfilm.
We use this material this way.
We will not use microfilm.
And the project had been slated to be a preservation photocopy.
When we created the facsimiles from the digital files, the faculty signed off on the original, being on a one-way trip.
Not all of our material, obviously, will be on a one trip.
The stuff down in Crack Library, we will reformat, but we will also retain the originals because of the value associated with the associational value and the information conveyed by the physical object itself.
We had to straighten using the Crack Library as an extreme case of retaining the original, but a writer was simply
Yeah, we do.
So can you have any idea what some of these things might be?
Little books.
Little books?
Printed books.
With what?
Grapples?
Well, we've done New York State and local history, pamphlets and monographs.
We've done 19th century serial literature.
We've done math texts.
For those materials that we are satisfied... So these are ones, basically, not fives.
No, no, no.
Math is a five.
But it is not... It's the information contained in the book itself that was deemed important.
And not the text.
Not the physical text.
Not the art of art.
Not the art of art, right.
Do you have a great hair?
We just bind and trim their spines so that we can create a good, you know, we do page by page scanning of the material.
I'd like to see this.
And I'll take you upstairs and show you what we've done.
And they will, their ultimate, oh, and we've done agriculture, his core agricultural history as well.
Can you give me a look right here?
How many volumes are you here?
Well, we've done over a million images in-house, so that's upwards in the range of maybe 3,000 to 3,500 volumes.
We're in a project right now between us and Michigan, and then also the library's working on stuff that will bring in another nearly 1.5 million images.
And if you roughly think of the volume as 300 pages each, you're probably looking at it.
You know, another 4,000 volumes of material.
And do you have a sense of how to... I mean, this must be a learning operation, though.
How long were you doing here for months?
Actually, we are now... Let me step back and tell you a little bit about what we are doing and what we are doing.
We did a very... If you have any literature on this, this is what we really need.
I'll give you some stuff.
You know, I don't want to speak this up here.
I'll probably get in touch with you.
This book is still a few years later.
I'm learning now.
I don't think I'll print any articles in the next six months or so.
Will you do something?
We started looking at the brittle book, because that's been the focus of our thing.
I did a fairly extensive assessment of printing, topography, and production techniques of the last, you know, hundred years, the hundred year period of brittle books, which was based on the use of metal type.
And metal type has a tendency to spread.
For commercial published things, the metal type spreads, so printers
were careful about how small or how closely spaced they made their letters, their characters, because they wanted the 500th printing to be good.
As good as the first.
Not as good, but good, still good.
The first would have, you know, you have fine metal type, and then over time it spreads a little bit, but good enough.
And so, and they were also confined by what the human eye could see.
And all common type faces from this period, and I did some real assessment of printing topography and specimen pages and examples from books at this period.
used tight fonts five-point or six-point and above.
Those below four-point were considered wonderful evidences of skill, but not practically used in commercial publications at the period.
Characters below about that five-point were hand-lettered, and you'll see that in books over and over again.
They'll have a chart, and there'll be some very small hand-lettering in the chart.
We did an assessment of the height of the smallest lowercase letters and concluded that they were at about one millimeter high.
We then scanned this material at a range of resolutions and concluded, based on a
a benchmarking formula we developed here, that 600 dot print scanning resolution will place 24 dots across that catheter.